devcovenant/core/policies/README.md, before:

# Policy Assets

## Table of Contents
1. Overview
2. Asset Declarations
3. Workflow

## Overview
Policy assets are files created because a policy is enabled, such as license
reports, security logs, or policy-specific README files. Assets live under each
policy at `devcovenant/core/policies/<policy>/assets/` and are installed only
when the policy is active and its profile scopes match the repo's active
profiles. Custom overrides live under
`devcovenant/custom/policies/<policy>/assets/` and take precedence.

## Asset Declarations
Policy assets are declared in the policy descriptor itself under the `assets`
key. Example descriptor path:
```
devcovenant/core/policies/dependency_license_sync/dependency_license_sync.yaml
```

A typical descriptor fragment looks like:
```
assets:
  - path: THIRD_PARTY_LICENSES.md
    template: THIRD_PARTY_LICENSES.md
    mode: merge
```

Install/update reads the descriptor assets directly; there is no separate
policy-asset registry.

## Workflow
When adding or adjusting a policy asset, update the policy descriptor, add
or refresh the asset file, and ensure install/update logic can resolve the
path. If a profile declares the same asset, the profile wins to keep
framework-specific assets prioritized over generic policy defaults.

Commit message:

Consolidate CLI entrypoints and policy activation
Move user-facing CLI entrypoints to the package root and remove duplicate core wrappers; implement config-first policy activation and asset ownership. Engine now applies normalized policy_state overrides, and install honors an allow_custom_policy_asset_fallback flag to load fallback assets from custom policy descriptors (with hyphen-to-underscore dir resolution). Added boolean normalization helpers, managed-doc selection from config (doc_assets.autogen/user), and tightened registry/refresh behaviors so registries and docs are generated from descriptors and config. Also added pre-commit/pytest license files, updated dependency pins, and added/adjusted tests and documentation to reflect the new activation, asset, and CLI layout.

devcovenant/core/policies/README.md, after:

# Policy Assets

## Table of Contents
1. Overview
2. Asset Declarations
3. Workflow

## Overview
Policy assets are files created because a policy is enabled, such as license
reports, security logs, or policy-specific README files.

Core policy behavior is profile-owned: stock policy assets should be declared
in profile manifests (`global` or other active profiles), not loaded directly
from core policy folders.

Custom policy behavior keeps a fallback path: when
`install.allow_custom_policy_asset_fallback` is true, assets declared in
`devcovenant/custom/policies/<policy>/<policy>.yaml` are loaded if that custom
policy resolves enabled via `policy_state`.

## Asset Declarations
Custom fallback assets are declared in the custom policy descriptor under the
`assets` key. Example descriptor path:
```
devcovenant/custom/policies/my_policy/my_policy.yaml
```

A typical descriptor fragment looks like:
```
assets:
  - path: THIRD_PARTY_LICENSES.md
    template: THIRD_PARTY_LICENSES.md
    mode: merge
```

Install/update treats profile asset declarations as primary. Custom policy
descriptor assets are a fallback convenience path.

## Workflow
When adding stock policy assets, declare them in profile manifests. When adding
custom policy assets without profile edits, declare them in the custom policy
descriptor and keep `install.allow_custom_policy_asset_fallback` enabled.
If a profile declares the same target path, the profile asset wins.
