devcovenant/custom/policies/README.md, before:

# Custom Policy Assets

## Table of Contents
1. Overview
2. Declaring Assets
3. Workflow

## Overview
Custom policy assets override core policy assets when paths match. Use this
folder to ship repo-specific policy documents or configuration files without
forking DevCovenant core. Examples include custom security logs, alternate
license reports, or a policy-specific README that captures how your team
interprets a rule.

## Declaring Assets
Register custom assets by adding a per-policy manifest at:
`devcovenant/custom/policies/<policy>/assets/policy_assets.yaml`

Example:
```yaml
assets:
  - path: docs/README.md
    template: README.md
    mode: replace
```

Assets should live alongside the manifest under
`devcovenant/custom/policies/<policy>/assets/`. Custom policy manifests
override core manifests when the policy id matches.

## Workflow
Add or adjust the asset, update the policy assets map, and keep the policy id
consistent. Custom policy assets are applied only when the policy is enabled
and in scope. After changes, run the DevCovenant gates so the manifest,
registry, and changelog stay synchronized.

Commit message:

Revise policies, profiles, and config metadata
Standardize and refresh policy metadata across the repo: replace legacy flags (apply/updated) with enabled/freeze/custom, normalize selectors and globs, and expand changelog-coverage rules (Change/Why/Impact + summary_verbs). Add a new devcov_integrity_guard policy and related adapters/fixers, reorganize/remove outdated parity/self-enforcement artifacts, and enable/adjust many core policies. Update profiles, add/register local registries and test scaffolding, and add several core commands/modules (deploy, undeploy, upgrade, refresh). Tooling changes: reformat .pre-commit-config.yaml (canonical YAML layout and exclusion list) and update .gitignore to track devcovenant/registry/local. Bump Last Updated dates in AGENTS.md and CHANGELOG.md and convert changelog entries to the new three-line format; refresh the CHANGELOG file list to include newly added/updated files. Add/adjust numerous tests and profile assets to match the refreshed policy set.

devcovenant/custom/policies/README.md, after:

# Custom Policy Assets

## Table of Contents
1. Overview
2. Declaring Assets
3. Workflow

## Overview
Custom policy assets override core policy assets when paths match. Use this
folder to ship repo-specific policy documents or configuration files without
forking DevCovenant core. Examples include custom security logs, alternate
license reports, or a policy-specific README that captures how your team
interprets a rule.

## Declaring Assets
Register custom assets by adding an `assets` list to the policy descriptor at:
`devcovenant/custom/policies/<policy>/<policy>.yaml`

Example:
```yaml
assets:
  - path: docs/README.md
    template: README.md
    mode: replace
```

Assets should live alongside the descriptor under
`devcovenant/custom/policies/<policy>/assets/`. Custom policy descriptors
override core descriptors when the policy id matches.

## Workflow
Add or adjust the asset, update the policy descriptor, and keep the policy id
consistent. Custom policy assets are applied only when the policy is enabled
and in scope. After changes, run the DevCovenant gates so the registry and
changelog stay synchronized.
