devcovenant/docs/config.md, before:

# Configuration

## Table of Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Workflow](#workflow)
- [Config Structure](#config-structure)
- [Profiles and Overrides](#profiles-and-overrides)
- [Examples](#examples)

## Overview
`devcovenant/config.yaml` captures the active profiles, policy overrides,
and install/update knobs. The file is tracked in the repo so CI and other
contributors use the same enforcement settings. Generated registry files
can be rebuilt, but config stays under version control.

## Workflow
1. Choose profiles that match the repo tech stack.
2. Add overrides for policies that need custom selectors or enforcement.
3. Keep the config file committed so the same rules apply in CI.

## Config Structure
The core sections are:
- `profiles.active` for the profile list.
- `policy_overrides` for per-policy metadata overrides.
- `autogen_do_not_apply` to disable a policy by default.
- `manual_force_apply` to force a policy on.
- `freeze_core_policies` to copy policy logic into custom overlays.

## Profiles and Overrides
Overrides merge in the order: policy defaults, profile overlays, then
config overrides. This lets a repo adjust a policy without editing core
files or the policy descriptor.

## Examples
```yaml
profiles:
  active:
    - global
    - python
    - docker
policy_overrides:
  changelog-coverage:
    enforcement: active
  dependency-license-sync:
    dependency_files:
      - requirements.in
      - requirements.lock
```

Commit message:

Generalize dependency-license-sync to use profiles
Make dependency-license-sync manifest-agnostic and drive manifest lists from profiles/config overlays rather than hard-coding them. Changes include:

- Policy implementation: remove hardcoded DEPENDENCY_FILES and read dependency_files from policy options (accepting string or list, trimming entries, early-return if empty).
- Policy descriptor: set dependency_files default to an empty list and update policy text to reference manifests provided by active profiles/config overrides.
- Profile overlay: devcovrepo profile now declares the Python dependency manifests and enables the policy.
- Tests: add a helper to build a checker with dependency_files/options and update tests to use it.
- Docs/spec/plan/readme/registry: update guidance to explain that profiles or config overrides supply dependency manifests, refresh prose and bump last-updated dates across multiple docs; update stock policy texts to match.

These changes let repos declare which dependency manifests are in-scope per ecosystem or repo via profiles/config, while keeping core policy metadata generic.

devcovenant/docs/config.md, after:

# Configuration

## Table of Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Workflow](#workflow)
- [Config Structure](#config-structure)
- [Profiles and Overrides](#profiles-and-overrides)
- [Examples](#examples)

## Overview
`devcovenant/config.yaml` captures the active profiles, policy overrides,
and install/update knobs. The file is tracked in the repo so CI and other
contributors use the same enforcement settings. Generated registry files
can be rebuilt, but config stays under version control.

## Workflow
1. Choose profiles that match the repo tech stack.
2. Add overrides for policies that need custom selectors or enforcement.
3. Keep the config file committed so the same rules apply in CI.

## Config Structure
The core sections are:
- `profiles.active` for the profile list.
- `policy_overrides` for per-policy metadata overrides.
- `autogen_do_not_apply` to disable a policy by default.
- `manual_force_apply` to force a policy on.
- `freeze_core_policies` to copy policy logic into custom overlays.

## Profiles and Overrides
Overrides merge in the order: policy defaults, profile overlays, then
config overrides. This lets a repo adjust a policy without editing core
files or the policy descriptor.
For dependency and license tracking, the active profiles supply the
`dependency-license-sync` manifest list; use config overrides when your
repo has custom manifest names.

## Examples
```yaml
profiles:
  active:
    - global
    - python
    - docker
policy_overrides:
  changelog-coverage:
    enforcement: active
  dependency-license-sync:
    dependency_files:
      - requirements.in
      - requirements.lock
```
