devcovenant/docs/registry.md, before:

# Registry Files

## Table of Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Workflow](#workflow)
- [Local Registry Contents](#local-registry-contents)
- [Global Registry Assets](#global-registry-assets)
- [Examples](#examples)

## Overview
The local registry tracks policy hashes, metadata, and refresh state.
DevCovenant regenerates these files during refresh so they stay in sync
with policy descriptors and profile overlays. Treat the registry as a
cache: do not edit it by hand.

## Workflow
1. Run refresh or update to rebuild the local registry.
2. Inspect the registry when debugging policy loading or overrides.
3. Commit registry changes alongside the code they represent.

## Local Registry Contents
The main files under `devcovenant/registry/local/` are:
- `policy_registry.yaml` for policy hashes and resolved metadata.
- `policy_metadata_schema.yaml` for the normalized schema keys.
- `profile_catalog.yaml` for the active profile inventory.
- `manifest.json` for install/update tracking and notices.

## Global Registry Assets
The global registry directory under `devcovenant/registry/global/` ships
canonical assets such as stock policy texts and policy replacement rules.
These files are part of the package and do not change per repo.

## Examples
To inspect the metadata for a policy:
```bash
rg -n "changelog-coverage" devcovenant/registry/local/policy_registry.yaml
```

Commit message:

Revise policies, profiles, and config metadata
Standardize and refresh policy metadata across the repo: replace legacy flags (apply/updated) with enabled/freeze/custom, normalize selectors and globs, and expand changelog-coverage rules (Change/Why/Impact + summary_verbs). Add a new devcov_integrity_guard policy and related adapters/fixers, reorganize/remove outdated parity/self-enforcement artifacts, and enable/adjust many core policies. Update profiles, add/register local registries and test scaffolding, and add several core commands/modules (deploy, undeploy, upgrade, refresh). Tooling changes: reformat .pre-commit-config.yaml (canonical YAML layout and exclusion list) and update .gitignore to track devcovenant/registry/local. Bump Last Updated dates in AGENTS.md and CHANGELOG.md and convert changelog entries to the new three-line format; refresh the CHANGELOG file list to include newly added/updated files. Add/adjust numerous tests and profile assets to match the refreshed policy set.

devcovenant/docs/registry.md, after:

# Registry Files

## Table of Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Workflow](#workflow)
- [Local Registry Contents](#local-registry-contents)
- [Global Registry Assets](#global-registry-assets)
- [Examples](#examples)

## Overview
The local registry tracks policy hashes, resolved metadata, and refresh
state. DevCovenant regenerates these files during refresh so they stay
in sync with policy descriptors and profile overlays. Treat the
registry as a cache: do not edit it by hand.

## Workflow
1. Run refresh or update to rebuild the local registry.
2. Inspect the registry when debugging policy loading or overrides.
3. Commit registry changes alongside the code they represent.

## Local Registry Contents
The main files under `devcovenant/registry/local/` are:
- `policy_registry.yaml` for policy hashes and resolved metadata.
- `profile_registry.yaml` for the active profile inventory.
- `manifest.json` for install/update tracking and notices.
- `test_status.json` for devflow gate/test run state.

## Global Registry Assets
The global registry directory under `devcovenant/registry/global/` ships
canonical assets such as stock policy texts and policy replacement rules.
These files are part of the package and do not change per repo.

## Examples
To inspect the metadata for a policy:
```bash
rg -n "changelog-coverage" devcovenant/registry/local/policy_registry.yaml
```

For a human-readable view of the active metadata, consult the policy
block in `AGENTS.md`, which mirrors the resolved registry values.
